Chord format:

[required]Root: A chord identifier begins with the letter name of the chord's root (e.g. C, Bb, F#). All other parameters are optional; if omitted, default values will be assigned.
major/minor quality: Expressed as m for minor, M for major, dim for diminished. Determines the 3rd and partially the 7th of the chord; m will assign a minor 3rd and a minor 7th; M will assign a major 3rd and a major 7th; dim will assign a minor third, a flatted 5th, and a diminished 7th (enharmonically equivalent to a major 6th); + or aug will assign a major third and a minor 7th. If omitted, a major third will be assigned, and the 7th, if included, will default to a minor 7th (forming a dominant 7th chord). Including an M in addition to an m will produce a minor-major 7th. Including an M in addition to a + or aug will produce an augmented major 7th (e.g. C+M7: C, E, G#, B). Including a sus, a 2, or a 4 will omit the 3rd and replace it with either the major 2nd (if 2 or sus2 is speficied) or the perfect 4th (if 4, sus4, or simply sus is specified).
extensions: The most common extension is the 7th. Including a 7 here will add either a major, minor, or diminished 7th, depending on the preceding chord quality (see above). Other extensions include the 9th, 11th, and 13th (enharmonically equivalent to the 2nd, 4th, and 6th respectively). As in standard musical notation, the inclusion of any extension implies the inclusion of all extensions below it. For example, Cm79 is equivalent to Cm9. Extensions may be modified by the inclusion of a # or b symbol before the number, (e.g. b9, #11). Default values depend on the chord quality and are as follows: *For a major chord: natural (major) 9th, #11, natural (major) 13th. *For a minor chord: natural (major) 9th, 11th, and 13th.
Special cases: Including a 6 in the chord name will omit the 7th, even if a higher extension is specified (e.g. C6/9). An altered dominant 7th can be specified simply using the keyword alt7 (e.g. Galt7: G, Ab, A#, B, Db, D#, F). To create a half-diminished 7th chord or any other chord with a flatted 5th, simply include (b5) in the name of the chord.

Chord-tone priorities:
Each chord contains a few 'guide tones' which largely define the quality of the chord. For most chords, the guide tones are the 3rd and 7th; the following exceptions apply: *In a 6th chord, the guide tones are the 3rd and 6th. *In a diminished chord, all chord tones are guide tones. *In an alt7, all chord tones except the root, b9, and #9 are guide tones. *In any augmented chord, the #5 is included as a guide tone. *In a sus chord, the 2nd or 4th replaces the 3rd as a guide tone.
Any extensions or other modifiers specified in the chord name are considered 'explicit auxiliary notes'; The notes help add tension and interest to the chord, but are not as essential in defining the character of the chord.
In musical improvisation, each chord is associated with a scale that can be played over it. If all 7 (give or take, depending on the scale) scale degrees are explicitly identified in the chord description, all scale degrees will already have been labeled as either guide tones or explicit auxiliary notes. Any scale degrees not explicitly identified will be filled in automatically using the default scale associated with that chord type (e.g. Lydian scale for major 7th, Dorian for minor 7th). These notes will be labeled as 'implicit auxiliary notes'. A scale other than the default scale can be specified, either for specific instances of the chord in the song file or for all instances of the chord in 


Song format:

Header: Contains song metadata. Placed between parentheses. Header components are separated by commas; spaces or line breaks will be interpreted as part of the component. Except for the title, this may render the component invalid. Header components must be presented in the right order. All components are required except for the optional swing parameter, although it is possible to leave a song untitled as long as there is one comma before the key signature.
(title,key signature,tempo,time signature,[optional]:swing)
Title: Name of the song. Can contain any character except a comma.
Key signature: Expressed as a single note forming the root of the song, e.g. Am, C#. Currently key changes are not supported. As of now, the key signature is only used for transposition, but may later also be used for complex harmonic analysis.
Tempo: Expressed as a number in beats per minute, e.g. 60.
Time signature: Expressed as a ratio, e.g. 4/4, 12/8. Irregular time signatures (e.g. 7/4) should work fine, but nicknames such as C for common time are not supported.
[Optional]:swing. If the word 'swing' is included here, the timer will interpret 8th notes as part of a triplet. For time signatures with an 8 in the denominator, 8th notes are automatically interpreted as part of a triplet, so including the swing parameter in a song with such a time signature has no effect.

Structure: Describes the order of the song sections. Expressed as a series of letters that match the section labels. The series should be enclosed in semicolons and should have no separator between the letters.

Sections: Describes the sequence of chords within each section. Repeats, codas, 1st and 2nd endings, etc., are all considered sections. There are no constraints on the length of a section. Expressed as a single, capitalized letter label followed by an opening bracket and ending with a closing bracket.

Chord sequence: Chords are expressed in the format listed above. Each chord is followed by either a forward slash, indicating that the chord lasts the length of an entire measure, or a series of periods indicating the duration of the chord, with each period signifying one beat as defined by the time signature. For example, in 4/4 time, the period indicates a quarter note; Dm... represents a D minor chord that is held for three quarter notes. If periods are used, the slash indicating the end of a measure is optional. While a slash preceded by one or more periods is ignored by the parser, its use is recommended to improve human readability.